All right.
So we just kind of focused on what happens to a conducting material when you place it in an electric
field.
Right the electrons are going to move in the opposite direction of the electric field and you're going
to have a force now acting between objects.
So what happens now what if it's an insulator.
What would be the difference in the kind of a very easy way of doing this is to take a just the regular
comb and brush your hair a few times or what happens is some of the electrons from your hair are going
to end up on the comb.
So you're gonna have some additional electrons here this comb basically becomes negatively charge by
picking up some of the charges from your hair as you comb your hair.
Now I imagine you have some kind of pieces of paper.
Again we're gonna cut them up in little squares just so they don't have a lot of weight because we want
to lift them up.
So is this an experiment you could do and anyway what you will notice is that these little bits of paper
are going to be attracted to the comb.
But why would these little bits of paper which is basically an insulating material.
Why would they be attracted to a column like this.
Okay so other examples of insulators so we could just write this kind of paper is kind of an obvious
one glass.
What else would.
Lots of other materials are insulators and unlike conductors conductors have some of these free electrons
that are free to move around.
They're not tightly bound to the nucleus right.
So they're kind of free when they're placed in electric field.
They move around insulators on the other hand there are electrons are more tightly bound to the atoms
so they're not kind of free to move around but you still get this force here acting on the bits of paper.
So let's have a look now what happens to an insulating material when you place it inside an electric
field.
Zoom in a little bit and see what's going on.
So we're gonna have a negatively charged comb right there.
And now what we're going to do is let's zoom in to one of these pieces of paper.
All right.
So I'm going to kind of really make a large piece of paper right here but this is an exaggeration and
that's OK.
Now imagine this has you know 10 to the twenty six number of atoms in it and each one of those atoms
is basically electrically neutral.
So the paper is initially electrically neutral.
I mean write that down
so why would it be attracted to this negatively charged cone.
OK again if you have something that's electrically neutral we basically have a positive atom and it's
being surrounded basically by a whole bunch of electrons.
All right let me represent those actually with kind of this cloud of electrons okay.
This atom here is negative sorry electrically neutral we have negatives here and we have positive centers
but overall the net charge is the exact same right these cancel out.
So there's no net charge over here.
So what happens now if I place something like this in an electric field produced by these excess negative
charges.
Well let's imagine here what the electric field looks like produced by those charges.
Again the electric field points toward the electrons.
Right.
So we should have electric field lines that are in this direction.
Now we're gonna do is we're going to place some of these neutral atoms.
But what happens now.
Well the positives are kind of stuck there right.
These guys can't really move too much.
So that's just kind of draw a whole bunch of positive atoms will draw the electrons in just a second.
All right.
And let's put the electron cloud now in blue.
Imagine what happens.
The electrons although they're tightly bound so it's not quite like the conductor where they just want
to go in the opposite surface.
What happens over here is these these atoms here kind of get stretched around.
All right.
So the cloud here of electrons will kind of get pushed down by this electric field.
So let me just kind of draw what this looks like in here just to kind of denote kind of some of these
atoms here let's just kind of just draw like an oval around it.
All right.
Anyway you could see now that the positives and negatives are no longer right on top of each other.
These atoms get stretched out.
However if you kind of look at what happens look at the top surface over here what do we have here at
the top surface the top surface of that paper if you look at it closely.
Again the electrons have been pushed down a little bit.
So these top surfaces right here actually become positively charged.
How about the bottom surface down here.
If I take a thin layer down here at the bottom again since the electric field is going up it forces
those electrons down a little bit.
So if I have a look at the bottom surface this here becomes negatively charged.
Let me write that down.
That's also important.
Bottom surface All right.
You could see that in the center of what we get.
If I focus on the center over here again if I kind of combine these negatives and those positives it's
still overall kind of electrically neutral.
I can do that for any layer there.
All right.
So let's draw a simplified picture here on the side.
So this is the electric field produced by the column.
And again what I have are positive top surface.
And I have a negative bottom surface.
Well guess what's going to happen now.
All right.
And again let's just denote this piece of paper here.
Just by something like this.
And the column itself is negatively charged.
If you think about it now in terms of cool Ohm's Law the distance here between the negatives and the
positives.
This is an attractive force
and what else.
There's going to be a repulsive force between these guys right the negatives from the comb with the
negatives from the bottom surface down here.
There is a repulsive force down here
however the net force guess what's going to happen since the proximity here is closer.
It means that the net force on the piece of paper here is going to be up.
This is going to be my net force direction because this force is bigger than the repulsive force.
So that's why the piece pieces of paper get attracted to the comb.